# 2020.06.04
## Collision Masks and Sprite Flipping and VSCode Type Checking and a Closed Project

Hello! Well, this morning, instead of working on actual work, I decided to spend a couple hours dabbling with this and managed to knock out a couple issues! I was able to implement collision masks for entities, which actually made the code feel quite a bit cleaner. The result is that I can add rectangular masks of pretty much any size to entities and the collision logic will still function as expected, woot!! Now, the princess doesn't look like they're hanging so far off the edge when ledge grabbing.

I'd failed to implement dynamic sprite flipping a while back, but decided to take another stab at it. I found the documentation I needed, and got it handled. Basically, if we tell the draw function we want to flip the sprite, we transform the context, moving the origin from the left to the right, change the xscale to -1, then draw the sprite on the opposite side of the screen. Then, reset the context to normal scaling and origin. I still feel like there is probably a better way, but this seems fine for now. The result of this is that I got to delete a *bunch* of awful code used to flip the sprites around. Now, I just give it the one sprite, then swap the xScale if I need to. Very clean and simple to boot!

After a bit of digging, I figured out how to add type checking to my vscode workspace. I'd been having issues with misspelled words getting lost in the mix and breaking the build, so hopefully this will help. The first result is that I added type declarations to a bunch of global variables! I fixed up the flagged errors and everything is still working, I'm very excited to continue using this.

AND I managed to get my spritesheet animations working A LOT smoother. With some small updates to the Sprite object (and a few assumptions about what kind of animations we'd want to do) I added a simple frame and animation speed that will automatically animate sprites that we want animated :) it assumes that (for animated sprites) the frames are on top of each other in the spritesheet which is fine since that's how our Oryx spritesheets are set up.
